Blog post: Maintaining a list of GOV.UK services (#52)
x-govuk/x-govuk.github.io: app/posts/maintaining-a-list-of-govuk-services.md

---

Back in 2013, after the successful launch of GOV.UK, the Government Digital Service [began looking at services](https://gds.blog.gov.uk/2013/07/17/the-pivot-from-publishing-to-transactions/), starting with a list of 25 which would be 'exemplars'.

The distinction between services and the main GOV.UK website itself is tricky to define and has gotten blurrier over time. As I understand it, the original decision was to move all static content onto the single government website (itself a huge task), but to keep services requiring users to submit information separate.

Since then, the number of GOV.UK branded digital services has grown. There are now services from every major department and agency, covering everything from [registering a design](https://www.gov.uk/register-a-design/send-your-application) to [checking MOT history](https://www.gov.uk/check-mot-history).

How many are there exactly though? The truth is, no one can answer that question. Whilst there are some central controls over the funding and launch of services, UK government is distributed across so many separate organisations that it’s impossible to keep track of them all.

> The Government Digital Service (GDS) used to maintain a 'register of services on a *.service.gov.uk domain', but this was closed when the [registers service was retired](https://dataingovernment.blog.gov.uk/2021/02/18/new-guidance-for-publishing-data/) in 2021.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Government Digital Service (GDS) used to maintain a ‘register of services on a *.service.gov.uk domain’, but this was closed when the [registers service was retired](https://dataingovernment.blog.gov.uk/2021/02/18/new-guidance-for-publishing-data/) in 2021.
```

## A community-maintained list

To fill this gap, I’ve been helping to run a [community-maintained list of government services](https://govuk-digital-services.herokuapp.com). There’s now over 400 services listed.

> Why do this? Lots of people have found it useful. Designers like being able to find other services to get inspiration from. Product managers working on platforms like GOV.UK Pay and GOV.UK Single Sign On use it to work out which services might use their platform. Researchers from outside government have even used it as a starting point for academic work.

Reviewer: Do you mean GOV.UK One Login?

```suggestion
Why do this? Lots of people have found it useful. Designers like being able to find other services to get inspiration from. Product managers working on platforms like GOV.UK Pay and GOV.UK One Login use it to work out which services might use their platform. Researchers from outside government have even used it as a starting point for academic work.
```

Author: Ah yeah. Wrote this on a train and forgot what the service had been renamed to… 🤦🏻‍♂️
